---
title: "Internship @IITI, part-1"
layout: post
date: 2017-12-22 22:44
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- intern
- IIT
- Indore
star: true
category: blog
author: abhishek
description: Intership at IIT Indore-
---

For a long time I wanted to write my expirence as an intern at **Center of astronomy, IIT Indore**. So finally accumulating all my courage I am posting this blog (*first blog*). How I got this internship I'll cover that later in some other blog, for now I'll just talk about the project I worked on.

So initially I was told by the professor that I was assign a project on **Python** to solve various fluid dynamics diffrential equation, but just days before internship professor called me and throw a awsome new that he has a really exciting project related to deep learning specifically **Image classification using Convolutional neural network**, as I already told him my wish to work on machine learning. I was aware of what CNN was, back then but never have I ever implement it on any of my project, forget about the making a huge model for big data set. But I wanted to work on machine learning project so bad, so I told him that I would like to work on it. He asked me few question regarding CNN, tensorflow, after that he bought that I knew a thing or two in deep learning, but in the end of call every thing went well I answered pretty much every question and he showed me the green flag and told me that he'll send some relevent material for my convinence (*I ended the call with sight of relive*)

After I got off the phone and  I went straight to my bed (*He called a night owl at 7:00 am*). After taking a small nap I woke up after 6-7 hr, I totally forgot what I talked earlier and continued watching **13 reason why!!**. Next day morning I got an email from the professor he send me some research paper, at that time my heart start sinking, all of a sudden my heart rate increase, I start recalling all the talk I had yesterday and realised that I am  so screwed as soon as I start reading those paper, I had no clue what I was reading out of 100 word's only few of them making sense, Where as remaining were as alien as *jadoo in koi mil gaya*, I though it's probably just my bad english or something. I have around 7 days remaining for my internship so I decide to read all that paper in a day or two and then work on the code in rest of the day, but I could'nt be any wrong, I spend over 12 hr reading all the paper, still was able to understand only the abstract of it. Biggest hurdle for me was the termology they used in it. Paper usually written with word that are standard in the literature of the respective subject so that aspect was a bit difficult for me and scared the shit out of me. Then comes 7th december I still remember, I accidently open coursera instead of linkedin, *both have kinda similar icon*, I was already enrolled in **Andrew Ng** coures on CNN, I never opened that before so I just opened it out of curosity and in the course over view I saw many topic relevent with my project. I though I should give it a shot. I start watching CNN series one by one, Literally with every other video i learnt something new and it feels like every topic he taught was related to my project and he used the same standard termology as used in those paper that really helped me. I mean literally I could'nt even express how much that course at that time helped me. If it wasn't for that courses I probably won't be able to do that internship. **And for anyone who wanted to learn about neaural network I highly recommand deep learning course by Andrew Ng**

After watching the whole series on CNN within a day or two I was atleast confident about the different layer of CNN, how it works and with grace of god he also explain transfer learning, which is basically is my project. After watching the series, it open all the closed door for me. I was able to understand different blog's, documentation related to CNN which was like alien to me before. So now after wattching all the Andrew Ng series only 3 day's were remaining for me to leave for indore so I start reading about transfer learning, CNN, Keras implementation of it from different sources and just like that I spend the next three day's and then went to indore with some knowledge in CNN, Pheww!!!!!. 
